WORK_LOG.md, before:

Name: Sabrina Vohra

| Date  |       Time        |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Update |
|:------|:-----------------:|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|
| 9/23  |  12:45 - 1:00pm   |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I started to think about it in terms of binary search. I researched how to do binary search. |
| 9/23  |   1:00 - 1:25pm   |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I implemented binary search as best I could, but it doesn't quite work. I think I may have missed an if statement. |
| 9/23  |   1:25 - 1:45pm   |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I looked at SpellingBee from last year to find a recursive binary search algorithm. I began to implement it, but haven't finished yet. |
| 9/23  |  10:45 - 10:55pm  |                                                                                                                                                                                                   I completed my trial of implementing binary search recursively as we did in Spelling Bee. However, I am running into a problem where the algorithm always returns null, even if the word does not appear in the dictionary. |
| 9/23  |  10:55 - 11:05pm  |                                                                                                                                           My problem was that my start and end lengths were determined by the length of the text rather than the length of the dictionary which was causing my problem. I was able to get my code using recursive binary search to work for the sentence, but none of the other tests so far. |
| 9/24  |  11:40 - 11:50pm  |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I realized that the other test cases aren't working with my current sorting algorithm because it is too slow. I looked into other sorting algorithms online which could be faster. |
| 9/24  | 11:50pm - 12:05am |                                                                                                                   I searched and couldn't find an algorithm that seemed to be faster. Instead, I tried to clean up the code because I noticed that I sometimes received an error about different array lengths being returned than expected. I checked through the code and also added a checker for if there are duplicates. |
| 9/25  |  12:05 - 12:20am  |                                              I was able to figure out the duplicates issue by trying various methods (like indexOf() and contains()). I was able to get it to work for 4/5 tests. The Rome test doesn't work because it times out, which I think is because binary search isn't the most efficient algorithm. Then, I cleaned up some of the code to make it smoother and use less for loops / if statements. |
| 9/25  |  10:55 - 11:15am  |                                                                                                                                                                                                              I tried to find ways to make the code more efficient when looking through the data a second time. I couldn't figure out how to get testRome() to work. I am looking for places where the code could be speedier. |
| 9/25  |  11:15 - 11:30am  |                                                                                                    I discussed with Mr. Blick about how to speed up the searching, so the slowest test could run faster. He helped come up with the idea to do an insertion sort for the misspelled words as they are added and then keep the binary search to look up the words in the dictionary. This is what I will try to approach next. |
| 9/25  | 11:30pm - 12:00am | I thought through using insertion to organize the list of misspelled words, but I realized I also need to keep track of them in the order in which they appear in the text, so it may end up being not that much faster. I thought about possibly adding the word to the dictionary so it can't be counted as misspelled again, but I wasn't able to figure out how to make sure it gets to the right spot in the dictionary. |
| 9/29  |  11:00 - 11:15pm  |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I started implementing the Node and Trie classes. I'm having trouble updating changes. |
| 10/1  |  11:30 - 11:50pm  |                                                                                                                                                I wrote the basics for the Trie and Node methods, wrote pseudocode for the parts I didn't fully get, and created Tries for the dictionary and the misspelled words (although I haven't added words to them yet). I'm struggling with the concept of adding words to each trie. |
| 10/2  |   1:00 - 1:20pm   |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I worked on understanding TST and then started working on the Tries solution by starting the insert method. |
| 10/2  |   1:20 - 1:45pm   |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I worked on the insert method for Tries. I'm still working on finding the next value and figuring out how to set it correctly so each Node can be created and searched through when needed. |
| 10/6  |   2:15 - 2:40pm   |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I worked through the insert method. I can't figure out how to store the children values yet which is making it difficult for me to insert. |
| 10/6  |   2:40 - 2:55pm   |                                                                                                                                                                                                                I worked through the insert method and tried to differentiate which instance variables I should keep track of for the Trie class versus the Node class. I'm still struggling with the arrays within each node. |
| 10/6  |   6:50 - 7:10pm   |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I wrote basic code for the insert and lookup methods, but they are returning the wrong values. I am working through debugging and seeing where I made the errors conceptually. |
| 10/6  |   7:10 - 7:30pm   |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I tried to debug the insert and lookup methods, but didn't get very far because I'm still not sure if I'm formatting the node:char map correctly. |
| 10/6  | 11:40pm - 12:00am |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I worked through debugging the insert and lookup methods. I tried to find any potential errors with the array searching. |
| 10/7  |  12:00 - 12:10am  |                                                       I wrote comments to make sure I was thinking through the code correctly. I'm hitting an error with the array lengths which might be a problem with the character subtraction in my if statements. I think I'm starting to get more of the concept down, though, and it's starting to become more of a code error rather than a conceptual problem which is improvement. |
| 10/9  |   8:00 - 8:15am   |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I was able to get my trie working! It turns out I had made the problem over-complicated by shifting each char. |
| 10/9  |   8:15 - 8:45am   |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I worked on beginning a TST solution iteratively. I haven't finished the primary concept, but am beginning by creating all the necessary methods and beginning the insert() method. |
| 10/9  |   9:15 - 9:35am   |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I worked on the insert() method for TST. I'm not sure if I've accounted for all the cases. |
| 10/9  |   9:35 - 9:55am   |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I worked through my TST file, but I'm not able to check all the nodes correctly in order to create new nodes. |
| 10/10 | 11:45pm - 12:00am |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I worked on debugging the insert() and lookup() methods by only going into the middle node if the values match. |
| 10/11 |   3:10 - 3:35pm   |                                                                                                      I worked with Mr. Blick to debug the if-statements and thought process behind the TST. We were able to find that the most basic of the problems was that I had not initialized the nodes correctly. Then, there was an issue with how I was checking if the nodes were null, which we debugged, as well. The code works! |

To add a new row to the table, click into a cell and then hit shift-enter.

Commit message:

Wrote comments and cleaned up code

WORK_LOG.md, after:

Name: Sabrina Vohra

| Date  |       Time        |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Update |
|:------|:-----------------:|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|
| 9/23  |  12:45 - 1:00pm   |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I started to think about it in terms of binary search. I researched how to do binary search. |
| 9/23  |   1:00 - 1:25pm   |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I implemented binary search as best I could, but it doesn't quite work. I think I may have missed an if statement. |
| 9/23  |   1:25 - 1:45pm   |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I looked at SpellingBee from last year to find a recursive binary search algorithm. I began to implement it, but haven't finished yet. |
| 9/23  |  10:45 - 10:55pm  |                                                                                                                                                                                                   I completed my trial of implementing binary search recursively as we did in Spelling Bee. However, I am running into a problem where the algorithm always returns null, even if the word does not appear in the dictionary. |
| 9/23  |  10:55 - 11:05pm  |                                                                                                                                           My problem was that my start and end lengths were determined by the length of the text rather than the length of the dictionary which was causing my problem. I was able to get my code using recursive binary search to work for the sentence, but none of the other tests so far. |
| 9/24  |  11:40 - 11:50pm  |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I realized that the other test cases aren't working with my current sorting algorithm because it is too slow. I looked into other sorting algorithms online which could be faster. |
| 9/24  | 11:50pm - 12:05am |                                                                                                                   I searched and couldn't find an algorithm that seemed to be faster. Instead, I tried to clean up the code because I noticed that I sometimes received an error about different array lengths being returned than expected. I checked through the code and also added a checker for if there are duplicates. |
| 9/25  |  12:05 - 12:20am  |                                              I was able to figure out the duplicates issue by trying various methods (like indexOf() and contains()). I was able to get it to work for 4/5 tests. The Rome test doesn't work because it times out, which I think is because binary search isn't the most efficient algorithm. Then, I cleaned up some of the code to make it smoother and use less for loops / if statements. |
| 9/25  |  10:55 - 11:15am  |                                                                                                                                                                                                              I tried to find ways to make the code more efficient when looking through the data a second time. I couldn't figure out how to get testRome() to work. I am looking for places where the code could be speedier. |
| 9/25  |  11:15 - 11:30am  |                                                                                                    I discussed with Mr. Blick about how to speed up the searching, so the slowest test could run faster. He helped come up with the idea to do an insertion sort for the misspelled words as they are added and then keep the binary search to look up the words in the dictionary. This is what I will try to approach next. |
| 9/25  | 11:30pm - 12:00am | I thought through using insertion to organize the list of misspelled words, but I realized I also need to keep track of them in the order in which they appear in the text, so it may end up being not that much faster. I thought about possibly adding the word to the dictionary so it can't be counted as misspelled again, but I wasn't able to figure out how to make sure it gets to the right spot in the dictionary. |
| 9/29  |  11:00 - 11:15pm  |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I started implementing the Node and Trie classes. I'm having trouble updating changes. |
| 10/1  |  11:30 - 11:50pm  |                                                                                                                                                I wrote the basics for the Trie and Node methods, wrote pseudocode for the parts I didn't fully get, and created Tries for the dictionary and the misspelled words (although I haven't added words to them yet). I'm struggling with the concept of adding words to each trie. |
| 10/2  |   1:00 - 1:20pm   |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I worked on understanding TST and then started working on the Tries solution by starting the insert method. |
| 10/2  |   1:20 - 1:45pm   |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I worked on the insert method for Tries. I'm still working on finding the next value and figuring out how to set it correctly so each Node can be created and searched through when needed. |
| 10/6  |   2:15 - 2:40pm   |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I worked through the insert method. I can't figure out how to store the children values yet which is making it difficult for me to insert. |
| 10/6  |   2:40 - 2:55pm   |                                                                                                                                                                                                                I worked through the insert method and tried to differentiate which instance variables I should keep track of for the Trie class versus the Node class. I'm still struggling with the arrays within each node. |
| 10/6  |   6:50 - 7:10pm   |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I wrote basic code for the insert and lookup methods, but they are returning the wrong values. I am working through debugging and seeing where I made the errors conceptually. |
| 10/6  |   7:10 - 7:30pm   |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I tried to debug the insert and lookup methods, but didn't get very far because I'm still not sure if I'm formatting the node:char map correctly. |
| 10/6  | 11:40pm - 12:00am |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I worked through debugging the insert and lookup methods. I tried to find any potential errors with the array searching. |
| 10/7  |  12:00 - 12:10am  |                                                       I wrote comments to make sure I was thinking through the code correctly. I'm hitting an error with the array lengths which might be a problem with the character subtraction in my if statements. I think I'm starting to get more of the concept down, though, and it's starting to become more of a code error rather than a conceptual problem which is improvement. |
| 10/9  |   8:00 - 8:15am   |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I was able to get my trie working! It turns out I had made the problem over-complicated by shifting each char. |
| 10/9  |   8:15 - 8:45am   |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I worked on beginning a TST solution iteratively. I haven't finished the primary concept, but am beginning by creating all the necessary methods and beginning the insert() method. |
| 10/9  |   9:15 - 9:35am   |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I worked on the insert() method for TST. I'm not sure if I've accounted for all the cases. |
| 10/9  |   9:35 - 9:55am   |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I worked through my TST file, but I'm not able to check all the nodes correctly in order to create new nodes. |
| 10/10 | 11:45pm - 12:00am |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I worked on debugging the insert() and lookup() methods by only going into the middle node if the values match. |
| 10/11 |   3:10 - 3:35pm   |                                                                                                      I worked with Mr. Blick to debug the if-statements and thought process behind the TST. We were able to find that the most basic of the problems was that I had not initialized the nodes correctly. Then, there was an issue with how I was checking if the nodes were null, which we debugged, as well. The code works! |
| 10/11 | 11:45pm - 12:15am |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I cleaned up some messy aspects of the code and wrote comments. |

To add a new row to the table, click into a cell and then hit shift-enter.
